Health data challenge (HADACA) is a serie of data challenge aiming to contribute to scientific crowdsourced benchmarking in the field of data analysis in health.

The aim of a scientific data challenge is to improve the state-of-the-art from a quantitative reference point. In the field of methodological development for health data analysis, HADACA is seeking to provide a formal comparison of performance between new algorithms and state-of-the-art methods.

To carry out these methodological assessments, HADACA brings together scientists from a variety of disciplines to tackle a specific challenge. During the week-long conference, participants brainstorm and work together to solve the problem posed by the organisers. Teams compete against each other and then share their solution publicly, so that all the participants can move on to the next stage together. Contrarily to classical workshops, HADACA challenges result in guidelines and scientific publications which are of use to the community. Offering authorship to competing teams, along with participation in manuscript design and writing, is a strong incentive that provides international visibility and recognition to participants.

HADACA challenges is a reccurent event, 1st edition occurred in 2018 in partnership with the Data Institute of University Grenoble-Alpes, 2nd edition occurred in 2019 in partnership with the Ligue contre le Cancer and sponsored by the EIT Health. 3rd edition organization was delayed by the COVID pandemic. It is now scheduled to November 2024, in partnership with the M4DI project, an axis of the PEPR Santé Numérique of the Plan Innovation Santé 2030.
